Hello everyone, and welcome to
our final lesson in module six.
In this video, we'll
discuss how to
augment the trajectory
rollout algorithm we
developed in the previous lesson
with a technique known
as dynamic windowing.
Dynamic windowing will allow
us to place linear and
angular acceleration constraints
on the vehicle's trajectory,
in order to promote comfort as
the vehicle progresses
between planning cycles.
Specifically, by
the end of this video,
you should be able to add
acceleration constraints
to the bicycle model
derived in course one,
and you should be able to modify
the trajectory
rollout algorithm to
accommodate these new constraints
using dynamic windowing.
Let's get started.
First, let's revisit
lesson one where we discussed
the kinematic equations
for a bicycle model.
Essentially, the two inputs to
the bicycle model are the linear
velocity in the steering angle,
which change the position and
heading of the robot over time.
One thing to notice
with this entire set of
kinematic equations
is that there is
no consideration of
higher-order terms,
such as acceleration or jerk.
These higher-order terms are what
cause discomfort for
passengers in the car,
so we should try to address
this in our kinematic model.
Even without incorporating
the full dynamic models
discussed in course one
into the trajectory
planning process,
we can restrict
the selected inputs to
consider the effects of
rapid changes on ride comfort.
We can do this by adding
a constraint for the range of
linear and angular accelerations
permitted for our bicycle model.
This will limit
the extent to which
passengers in our vehicle
will experience
forces and torques while
our vehicle traverses
its planned trajectory.
However, this comes
with a trade-off.
Our motion planner will lose
some maneuverability at
each planning iteration.
Specifically, after adding
this angular
acceleration constraint,
we may not be able to move to
every possible steering angle
in our steering angle set,
because they may induce too
high of an angular acceleration.
In addition, we may
not be able to ramp
our velocity up or down as
quickly between
planning iterations.
Let's focus on the angular
acceleration constraint
and derive the resulting
steering angle restriction.
Recall that the
angular velocity for
the bicycle model is given
by vtandelta over L.
The magnitude of
the angular acceleration
is therefore
approximately given by
the absolute difference between
the angular velocities of
our start and ending
steering angles divided by
the time step we're using.
Rearranging the terms
using the fact that
v and L are always
positive for our planner,
we have the requirement that
the absolute value of the tan
of delta at time two minus
the tan of delta at time
one must be less than
or equal to theta
double-dot max times L over
v. To help solidify how
this impacts our planner,
let's analyze a concrete example.
Suppose our bicycle
model is moving at
a constant linear
velocity of one meter
per second across
all candidate trajectories,
and has a current steering angle
of pi over eight.
Suppose the maximum and
minimum steering angle for
this robot or pi over
four and minus pi over
four respectively,
and that our steering angle
step size is pi over eight.
In addition, suppose our
trajectories are sampled
at a time resolution
of 0.1 seconds,
and that our bicycle model robot
has a length of one meter.
Finally, let's constrain
our angular acceleration
to 0.6 radians per
second squared.
Let's apply our derived
steering angle constraints
to this example problem.
We have that our current
steering angle delta
one is pi over eight.
By substituting
each potential steering angle
into our steering angle set,
we see that the angular
acceleration constraint
is violated if we
were to change
our steering angle to
minus pi over eight or
minus pi over four.
However, changing
it to pi over four
zero or keeping it the
same at pi over eight,
are all valid selections
according to our new constraints.
To illustrate this,
we have colored
the disallowed trajectories red.
The remaining
trajectories colored in
green are still available to
the subsequent step of
the reactive planner that we
developed in the previous lesson.
This illustrates that in general,
the added constraints will reduce
the maneuverability of
the robot to a certain extent,
while promoting
more comfortable trajectories.
The more restrictive
the set of constraints,
the less maneuverable
the robot will be.
We can also apply
similar logic to the case of
a linear acceleration
constraint and
a range of linear velocity
inputs available to us,
or even have both constraints
applied to the robot
at the same time.
In general, the dynamic
window approach
allows us to incorporate
more restrictions on how
the trajectory evolves
during planning,
resulting in motion
that better satisfies
a broad set of objectives
simultaneously.
To summarize this lesson,
we first introduced additional
acceleration constraints
to our bicycle model.
We then derive the process of
dynamic windowing to restrict
our trajectory set at
each time step in
order to satisfy
these new constraints for
our trajectory rollout algorithm.
Congratulations,
you've now reached
the end of this module.
Let's review what we've covered.
We first developed the concept of
trajectory propagation
in order to
generate trajectories for
a given motion model.
We then moved on to
collision checking,
which is necessary for developing
collision-free motion plans
for our autonomous vehicle.
Then, we combined
these two concepts into
the trajectory rollout planner
and augmented it
using dynamic windowing to
handle acceleration constraints.
By now, you should have
a strong foundation in
reactive planning centered on
the trajectory rollout algorithm.
This is a compact and effective
general motion planning strategy
suitable for a wide range
of planning tasks,
with a wide variety of
objectives and constraints.
In the next module,
we will start our discussion of
dynamic environments and use
trajectory propagation and
collision detection to
predict the motion of
other objects and determine
whether a collision might occur.
See you there.